5.8.12 LTS RNs.mdx (#1459)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: developer-support/release-notes/dashboard.mdx

## 5.8 Release Notes

### 5.8.12 Release Notes

#### Release Date xx February 2025

#### Release Highlights

In this patch, we have fixed a number of small issues related to the management of API Keys (Auth Tokens) for APIs secured with mTLS in the Dashboard UI. We have also fixed the filtering applied when requesting the details of all keys that grant access to a specific API. 

For a comprehensive list of changes, please refer to the detailed [changelog](#Changelog-v5.8.12).

#### Breaking Changes

> There are no breaking changes in this release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A change has been made to improve security of the legacy [**Auth Token + Dynamic mTLS**](/api-management/implement-tls#legacy-dynamic-mtls-mode) method for securing access to APIs deployed on Tyk. This removes the option to authenticate using only the auth token and enforces the mTLS handshake.

Previously, API clients could authenticate without presenting the client certificate or holding the client's private key.

For any user relying on that behavior, we have added a new Gateway configuration option: `allow_unsafe_dynamic_mtls_token`. Unless deliberately configured in the config file or environment, this is set to `false` to ensure that Tyk is secure by default.
```

## 5.8 Release Notes

### 5.8.12 Release Notes

#### Release Date xx February 2025

#### Release Highlights

> In this patch, we have fixed a number of small issues relating to the management of API Keys (Auth Tokens) for APIs secured using mTLS when using Dashboard UI. We have also fixed the filtering applied when requesting the details of all keys that grant access to a specific API.  For a comprehensive list of changes, please refer to the detailed [changelog](#Changelog-v5.8.12).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this patch, we have fixed a number of small issues related to the management of API Keys (Auth Tokens) for APIs secured with mTLS in the Dashboard UI. We have also fixed the filtering applied when requesting the details of all keys that grant access to a specific API. 

For a comprehensive list of changes, please refer to the detailed [changelog](#Changelog-v5.8.12).
```

| [Redis](https://redis.io/download/)  | 6.2.x, 7.x  | 6.2.x, 7.x  | Used by Tyk Gateway | 
| [OpenAPI Specification](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.3)| v3.0.x                 | v3.0.x                 | Supported by [Tyk OAS](/api-management/gateway-config-tyk-oas) |

Given the potential time difference between your upgrade and the release of this version, we recommend users verify the ongoing support of third-party dependencies they install, as their status may have changed since the release.

#### Deprecations

No deprecations in this release.

#### Upgrade instructions

If you are upgrading to 5.8.12, please follow the detailed [upgrade instructions](#upgrading-tyk).

#### Downloads

- [Docker image to pull](https://hub.docker.com/r/tykio/tyk-dashboard/tags?page=&page_size=&ordering=&name=v5.8.12)
  - ```bash
    docker pull tykio/tyk-dashboard:v5.8.12
    ``` 
- Helm charts
  - [tyk-charts v5.1.0](/developer-support/release-notes/helm-chart#5-1-0-release-notes)

#### Changelog
<a id="Changelog-v5.8.12" data-scroll-offset></a>

##### Fixed

<AccordionGroup>

> <Accordion title='Fixed Issues Associating Client Certificates with API Keys'>
> Fixed an issue where the Create Key and Edit Key screens would incorrectly require the user to register a client certificate with the key when granting access to an API secured with static mTLS.
> 
> Fixed a separate issue where the option to assign the client certificate was not possible when creating a key for an API which has the authentication method changed to use dynamic mTLS.
> </Accordion>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Fixed Issues Associating Client Certificates with API Keys'>
We have addressed the following issues
- Create Key and Edit Key screens would incorrectly require the user to register a client certificate with the key when granting access to an API secured with static mTLS.
- The option to assign the client certificate was not possible when creating a key for an API that has the authentication method changed to use dynamic mTLS.
</Accordion>
```

<Accordion title='Improved Experience when License Missing or Expired'>
Fixed inaccurate wording and links on the screen presented on startup when the Dashboard license is missing or has expired.
</Accordion>

> <Accordion title='Fixed API-Specific Key Retrieval in Dashboard'>
> Resolved an issue where the Dashboard's `GET /api/apis/{api_id}/keys` endpoint incorrectly returned all keys in the environment instead of only keys associated with the specified API. Users can now accurately retrieve and manage keys for individual APIs, eliminating confusion when working with multi-API environments. Note that the addition of this filtering can lead to minor delays in the response to this endpoint when there are large numbers of APIs and keys.
> </Accordion>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Fixed API-Specific Key Retrieval in Dashboard'>
Resolved an issue where the Dashboard's `GET /api/apis/{api_id}/keys` endpoint incorrectly returned all keys in the environment instead of only keys associated with the specified API. Users can now accurately retrieve and manage keys for individual APIs.
</Accordion>
```

> </Accordion>
> 
> <Accordion title='Fixed Certificate Re-use After Swapping in Multi-Auth Keys'>
> Resolved an issue where swapping certificates in multi-auth (mTLS + Basic auth) keys prevented the original certificate from being reused. Previously, when updating a key's certificate, the original certificate remained incorrectly associated with the key internally, causing "key with given certificate already found" errors when attempting to reuse that certificate. Tyk now properly detaches certificates during key updates, allowing certificates to be freely reused across different keys after being removed from their original association.
> </Accordion>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Fixed Certificate Re-use After Swapping in Multi-Auth Keys'>
Resolved an issue where swapping certificates in multi-auth (mTLS + Basic auth) keys prevented the original certificate from being reused. Previously, when updating a key's certificate, the original certificate remained incorrectly associated with the key internally, causing "key with given certificate already found" errors when attempting to reuse that certificate.

Tyk now properly detaches certificates during key updates, allowing certificates to be freely reused across different keys after being removed from their original association.
</Accordion>
```

## 5.8 Release Notes

### 5.8.12 Release Notes

#### Release Date xx February 2025

#### Release Highlights

> In this release, we have improved the Dashboard user experience by fixing certificate authentication configuration issues for mTLS APIs, updating the expired license modal with correct contact information, and resolving the API-specific key retrieval endpoint to return only relevant keys instead of all environment keys. For a comprehensive list of changes, please refer to the detailed [changelog](#Changelog-v5.8.12).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this patch, we have fixed a number of small issues relating to the management of API Keys (Auth Tokens) for APIs secured using mTLS when using Dashboard UI. We have also fixed the filtering applied when requesting the details of all keys that grant access to a specific API.  For a comprehensive list of changes, please refer to the detailed [changelog](#Changelog-v5.8.12).
```

| [Redis](https://redis.io/download/)  | 6.2.x, 7.x  | 6.2.x, 7.x  | Used by Tyk Gateway | 
| [OpenAPI Specification](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.3)| v3.0.x                 | v3.0.x                 | Supported by [Tyk OAS](/api-management/gateway-config-tyk-oas) |

Given the potential time difference between your upgrade and the release of this version, we recommend users verify the ongoing support of third-party dependencies they install, as their status may have changed since the release.

#### Deprecations

No deprecations in this release.

#### Upgrade instructions

If you are upgrading to 5.8.12, please follow the detailed [upgrade instructions](#upgrading-tyk).

#### Downloads

- [Docker image to pull](https://hub.docker.com/r/tykio/tyk-dashboard/tags?page=&page_size=&ordering=&name=v5.8.12)
  - ```bash
    docker pull tykio/tyk-dashboard:v5.8.12
    ``` 
- Helm charts
  - [tyk-charts v5.1.0](/developer-support/release-notes/helm-chart#5-1-0-release-notes)

#### Changelog
<a id="Changelog-v5.8.12" data-scroll-offset></a>

##### Fixed

<AccordionGroup>

> <Accordion title='Fixed Certificate Authentication Configuration Issues for mTLS APIs'>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Fixed Issues Associating Client Certificates with API Keys'>
```

There's no such thing as Certificate Auth in 5.8.12 -> that's only in 5.12.0. Here it is still called Dynamic mTLS and is a special mode of Auth Token.

> Resolved multiple issues with certificate authentication configuration in the Dashboard UI. Fixed an issue where the Authentication tab incorrectly appeared when creating keys for APIs protected with Auth Token and static mTLS, forcing users to unnecessarily link client certificates. Additionally, resolved a configuration timing issue where enabling "Client Certificate" authentication after initial API creation failed to properly set required certificate flags (`auth.use_certificate` and `auth_configs.authToken.use_certificate`), preventing certificate sections from being editable in subsequently created keys. These fixes eliminate confusing certificate linking requirements, ensure consistent dynamic mTLS key creation regardless of when certificate authentication is enabled, and provide clearer separation between different mTLS authentication modes in the Dashboard interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed an issue where the Create Key and Edit Key screens would incorrectly require the user to register a client certificate with the key when granting access to an API secured with static mTLS.

Fixed a separate issue where the option to assign the client certificate was not possible when creating a key for an API which has the authentication method changed to use dynamic mTLS.
```

</Accordion>

> <Accordion title='Updated Expired License Modal with Correct Contact Information'>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Improved Experience when License Missing or Expired'>
```

> Improved the expired license modal in the Dashboard to provide accurate guidance and working links for users with expired licenses. Previously, the "Renew License" button redirected to an outdated URL with no content, and the modal text incorrectly suggested users could get another free trial. The modal now displays a "Contact Tyk" button that directs users to the proper contact page, along with updated messaging that explains license expiration and directs users to reach out to Tyk or their Account Manager for next steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed inaccurate wording and links on the screen presented on startup when the Dashboard license is missing or has expired.
```

</Accordion>

<Accordion title='Fixed API-Specific Key Retrieval in Dashboard'>

> Resolved an issue where the Dashboard's `/api/apis/{api_id}/keys` endpoint incorrectly returned all keys in the environment instead of only keys associated with the specified API. Users can now accurately retrieve and manage keys for individual APIs, eliminating confusion when working with multi-API environments. The fix ensures that only keys with explicit access rights to the requested API are returned, while maintaining performance safeguards to prevent resource exhaustion during large-scale key operations. This enhancement enables proper API-specific credential management and improves the accuracy of key administration workflows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resolved an issue where the Dashboard's `GET /api/apis/{api_id}/keys` endpoint incorrectly returned all keys in the environment instead of only keys associated with the specified API. Users can now accurately retrieve and manage keys for individual APIs, eliminating confusion when working with multi-API environments. Note that the addition of this filtering can lead to minor delays in the response to this endpoint when there are large numbers of APIs and keys.
```

</Accordion>

<Accordion title='Fixed Certificate Re-use After Swapping in Multi-Auth Keys'>

> Resolved an issue where swapping certificates in multi-auth (mTLS + Basic auth) keys prevented the original certificate from being reused. Previously, when updating a key's certificate, the original certificate remained incorrectly associated with the key internally, causing "key with given certificate already found" errors when attempting to reuse that certificate. The Gateway now properly detaches certificates during key updates, allowing certificates to be freely reused across different keys after being removed from their original association.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resolved an issue where swapping certificates in multi-auth (mTLS + Basic auth) keys prevented the original certificate from being reused. Previously, when updating a key's certificate, the original certificate remained incorrectly associated with the key internally, causing "key with given certificate already found" errors when attempting to reuse that certificate. Tyk now properly detaches certificates during key updates, allowing certificates to be freely reused across different keys after being removed from their original association.
```
